Code book 
=================

This document describes the variables, the data, and any transformations generated by the script run_analysis.R

## Original data sets
The datasets are dowloaded from: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip as results of an experiment in which measurements were collected from the accelerometer and gyroscope from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone used by 30 subjects carrying out a variety of 6 activities:

* WALKING
* WALKING_UPSTAIRS
* WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
* SITTING
* STANDING
* LAYING

Taken from http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones:

"The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data.

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain."

### Transormations

1. Select rows from feature dataset wihtin '-mean' and '-std' string and rename column names into 'mean' and 'std'.
2. Bind by rows training, test and subject data frame
3. Extract data by selected columns from step iii
4. Create a data frame named data with subject, y and x mesures
5. Create tidy data frame that consists of the average (mean) of each variable for each subject and each activity.






